Advantages of Online Airline Reservation System over Manual system of reservation:
1. The online system makes it possible for customers to book the flights as when they require.
   Therefore Customers make reservations, modify reservations and cancel reservations.
   It should be a self-contained product.
   This was possible after published the following information by airlines in large books:
   o routes, o aircrafts, o schedules and o fares about flights	
   American Airline was the first to build the computerized system to allow access to real time data to all its offices.
2. An improved airline reservation system enable passengers 
   o book available flights, 
   o select seats for their flights, 
   o print boarding passes, 
   o access aircraft maintenance report, 
   o check-in online for their flight
   a good airline reservation should have the features 
   o a search engine that returns sufficient number of flights, 
   o facilities for selecting seats, 
   o printing tickets and boarding passes and 
   o facilities for making notifications was explored.


Challenges of Airline Reservation System and Possible Solutions

Problem 1. Inability of passengers to select seat(s) for their chosen flight(s) from the existing reservation
system. This has ultimately resulted in time being wasted at the check-in counter in assigning seats to
passengers before they are allowed to board the airplane.
Solution: 
	The system should provide the customer to 
	o search and book available flights
	o select seats for their flights

Problem 2. No option of passengers printing their boarding pass from the existing system
Solution: 
	The system should provide the customer to 
	o pay for the booking
    o print their boarding pass only after payment has been made

Problem 3. Non notification of passengers in the event of flight cancellation or delays 
Solution: 
	The system should provide the customer to
	o be notified of flight cancellation or delays

Problem 4. No access to aircraft maintenance reports to ease passenger fears as regards to air travel and its disasters
Solution: 
	The system should provide the customer to	
	o access aircraft maintenance reports

Scope of improved Airline Reservation System:
1. search and book available flights
2. select seats for their flights
3. pay for the booking
4. print their boarding pass only after payment has been made
5. access aircraft maintenance reports 
6. be notified of flight cancellation or delays

References: 
1. https://www.mecs-press.org/ijitcs/ijitcs-v9-n1/IJITCS-V9-N1-5.pdf